Some of my more avid readers have often approached me to ask “Hey, what happened to Steve The Bonsai?” to which I most often reply “Hey, how did you get in my house?” and also the rib-tickling “why are you covered in Nutella?” But the fact of the matter is I haven’t spoken about Steve, because Steve is gone. Forever now. Still, I suppose I owe it to the masses to explain, and I shall do so in writing because I don’t want tears to obfuscate my telling of this story.


I first met Steve the bonsai on a quiet moonlit night, the stars were out twinkling and reaching out to what was basest in man- a longing to be greater. I was vomiting at the time. It was a day among my first few of alcohol consumption, a day I did attack with petrol drinking fervour. It was outside a night club, and I saw Steve leaning against a wall, watching me with slightly bemused eyes.


“I’m not usually like this” I tried to explain between retches of colourful food that told of a chewing not thorough enough.

“Good, because you do not have the figure for a tube top” said Steve in his carefree Australian drawl.

“I mean’t the puking” I said abruptly.

Steve laughed a laugh that sent warmth right to my very being. I closed my eyes and felt it course through me, and suddenly, I felt fine.

“You want my advice?” asked Steve with a bravado that only a man with a moustache could have.

“Yes?” I said nervously. Perhaps a little too quickly.

“Don’t drink so much” he said shortly. It was the truest thing that anyone had ever said to me. Before I knew it, I was asking Steve if he needed a place to stay, and that I had an extra room if he did.


The first few months with Steve were wonderful. We used to be up nights just talking, talking about everything that needed to be said. Talking about things I didn’t know I felt. Feeling things I didn’t know existed to be felt. It was like we were meant to be together.Thinking back I see those moments encased in a bubble of our good times. Vivid, but just a pin prick away. . .


In early 2009 I was going through a difficult phase. Wrapped in my head, I found things hard to communicate. Instead of sharing what I needed to, I ended up yelling, dancing, questioning arbitrary aspects of the universe and watching E news. It was then that Steve really came through for me.


One particular day when I was yelling at the starry night about the Chandrashekhar limit, Steve came to me and said kindly. “Start a blog.”


“Why does a blog need to start? Is it a journey? An initiation? The trueness of it starting means it is a concept that needs to be brought into being for me to truly use it and be it- but who are we to create something from nothingness and to start it as you say-”


“Yeah this is exactly what I’m talking about” interrupted Steve. “Stop your bitching and start a blog. Talk about things you feel, over there. And I’ll tell you what; call it Cheesecake” he said, slapping me across the face.


“Why Cheesecake? I hate Cheesecake.” I snapped. I do, I hate cheesecake. There. I said it.


“I’ll explain later” said Steve. “But you must do it! Look I’ve already taken the liberty of setting it up, all you have to do is go write something” said Steve sliding the macbook across to me.


Starting my blog gave me the most peace I had ever known. Since then, things that crossed my mind simply leaped over to my fingers, squeezed through and plopped (or splooshed, if you’re picky) on to the internet, where other people marveled at what they read and sent me pictures of themselves naked (which I always encourage. . . Ladies)

Little did I know, that I was casting the first stone for the beginning. The beginning of the end.


I spent more and more time on my blog or just cataloguing my thoughts. Days I would come home and Steve would be waiting for me expectantly with Wii controllers or a fresh batch of brownies, but I would trudge past and get down straight to my writing. Did I realize at the time what I was doing? I suppose not. No. I would never have done it then.


But that was when the girls started coming home. Walking in one day I saw Steve in the hot tub, motorboating with two topless girls. “Um… hey?” I said loudly, standing outside.


“Oh heyy mate!” said Steve, stopping the very small motorboat which fit in our hot tub. “Have you met Nykki (I could tell it was spelt like that) and Kanan?” he slurred.


“I’m Kanan” I told him slowly. That is my name. The other girl didn’t seem to understand English or seemed to be too drunk to care.


“Join us!” yelled Steve.


“I have some work to do” I said and excused my self. To tell you the truth, I was a little disgusted by what I saw. I mean I like women, but those girls were really drunk. And something made me guess that that was the reason Steve brought them home.


I tried to sleep through the noises at night.


I tried to talk to Steve about it in the morning but he was hurrying out and swore he’d talk to me later. This only got worse as days progressed. Soon it became clear to me that Steve the Bonsai had no respect for women.


A few weeks later I walked in and Steve was perched on the head of some blonde girl, who was washing his linen. I had to put my foot down.


“Steve!” I yelled.


“Kanan! Baby doll! How’s it hanging?” he drawled from his perch atop the woman’s head. “Who said you could stop washing?” he told the woman with a sharp rap atop her head. She whimpered and kept scrubbing.


I yanked Steve away and spoke to him in the other room. “Exactly what are you doing?” I asked him. “Bro broo!” he interjected slowly. “If bitches were horses, then even Bonsais would ride? ya’mean?” he said, nudging me and sniggering.


I was horrified. “It’s wishes and beggars” I said. “And what the fuck are you trying to prove huh? Don’t you see the misogyny manifested in you? ” I said shoving him.


Steve turned to me with an anger I’ve never seen before. “I put the man in manifest. And don’t you tell me where a woman’s place is! Why don’t you go tell your fucking blog?”


“Is that what this is about?” I yelled. But Steve had stormed out and in the distance I could hear him yelling ‘Bitch where’s my dinner?’


This was not the Steve I had once known.


The next time I could get a hold of him I tried to speak to him, to reason. “listen, the blog was never meant to replace you. I-I’m sorry if I haven’t been giving you enough attention”


“I’m sorry too pal” said Steve. Then he clapped his hands and told the three women around him “time for bed ladies, men are talking.” I watched as they all left obediently.

“Damnit Steve you can’t do this!” I said loudly, smashing my fist against the coffee table.


“HEY!” said Steve with the rage that was becoming more and more frequent with passing days. “Just because you’re not man enough to control your women-”


“I’m man enough!” I yelled, cutting him off. “ and I don’t need to hear this from a STUNTED TREE-”


It had slipped out before I knew it. Both of us stopped talking. Silence hung limply in the air. It couldn’t be un said. I tried to talk to him, to apologize. But he just looked at me, and infinite sea of sadness in his eyes. I spent the night tossing and turning, wondering how to apologize, make things right.


I ran to his room in the morning to say, say-something, anything, to make it better. But he was gone. Steve the bonsai had left in the night. Left without leaving a note. Left without saying a word.


The house was cold - empty - painful.


That’s why I haven’t spoken about it. 
